# Brian Bauer Capstone Essay
This project is meant to be a simulation of the development of an eye of the Drosphila, or fruit fly, while 
the bug is still its larval stage.  Being able to simulate this has a lot of implications in the field of 
neurobiology.  This includes discovering inconsistencies in the currently used growth models, knowing how we 
can simulate other eyes, etc.  From the perspective of the team developing the software which will simulate 
this eye growth, this is an opportunity to apply principles of particle simulations and object-oriented 
design in a field which is unfamiliar to us.  It is also an opportunity to learn new techniques and 
technologies in the field of Computer Science and software engineering.  Working in such an environment will 
allow us, the team, to share amongst ourselves ideas accumulated during co-op rotations and during personal 
time, promoting the development of skillsets and broadening of expertise.

Many of the team-members have worked in completely different areas during our co-ops and have taken 
different classes during our college careers.  We all have skills which we can contribute to the project.  
How we go about the project’s development will be heavily influenced by those skills and expertise.  Many 
of the courses we have taken required us to work in groups to complete projects, necessitating teamwork and 
being open to the ideas of other group members.  For example, Parallel Computing (CS 5168) required a final 
project for which another member of this project’s team and I worked on a relatively complicated project.  A 
lot of time was spent planning and discussing the overall direction of the project.  Another influencing 
class was Software Engineering (EECE 3093C).  This class was all about working in a team to organize and 
develop a product.  The courses we’ve taken during college have been helpful, but haven’t been the only 
sources of education in our majors.

As required by the curriculum of for Computer Science, we have all completed multiple co-op rotations at 
various companies/organizations.  For me, co-oping at Siemens PLM Software taught me how to work in a 
corporate setting.  It allowed me to see how large, long-term projects are planned and implemented in the 
work world.  I had to work with many different people and on things which I had previously never worked on.  
Another lesson was the importance of regular meetings for projects, which helps to refresh and orient 
everyone working on said project.  Regular meetings are something which my senior design group has already 
started having.  Often for students, co-ops give an opportunity to learn technologies that they would 
otherwise not bother learning.

This eye development simulation project provides another great opportunity to learn technologies which I 
would not have otherwise learned.  Already, I have learned a lot about python and the biological processes 
and mechanisms involved in eye development.  Having to work with members of the neurobiology department 
requires study in different areas, and abstraction of information so as to be able to represent an 
equivalence in a simulation.  To begin designing our project, we have been talking with Dr. Buschbeck of the 
Neurobiology department to gather requirements for what they want from our final project.  With these 
requirements, we have been planning the basic structure of the software.  This is turning out to be a 
promising project in my perspective, as everyone seems invested and excited to work on it, as well as see 
the results.

We expect this project to be a 2D simulation, but we also hope to be able to implement this in 3D.  Many 
stretch goals have been established for this project, and the Neurobiology department has helped us to 
establish them.  Personally, I hope to be able to become very familiar with Python and to be an integral 
part of the development of our software.  I hope that everyone will contribute to the best of their ability, 
and I want the team to also be open to giving team members the freedom to take the time to learn something 
which is new to them.  Measuring the contributions of any single member of the team is not a simple task.  
That members’ contributions must be considered relative to the contributions of every other team member, 
especially since we have no solid end state for the project in mind.  As such, we hope to continue 
developing and adding features to this software until we run out of time.